---
student_name: Megumi Ohara
topic: Based on this database, the course material and your research analyze and summarize the various public policies in favor of digital commons
(categories, criteria of success, regional dynamics)
---
Digital Common Policies in Different Regions of the World

  As reliance on digital systems grows, so does the importance of digital commons. Digital commons are shared and non-subtractable digital resources that operate under shared governance, where rights to usage, management, and organization are collectively defined. Digital commons prioritize equitable access to resources that can provide “a way forward for an inclusive and sustainable ecosystem with shared social benefit”. Equity is strengthened through its democratic governance, reflecting broader community interests over corporate profits. Furthermore, digital commons enable innovation through collaboration across communities, governments, and industries. In Taiwan, a civic hacking community g0v, collaborated with government agencies during COVID-19 to rapidly develop digital tools to curb the spread of the virus. They created contact tracing apps using open-source technologies, demonstrating the societal benefits of digital commons. Thus, policies encouraging the development of digital commons are crucial in fostering the creation and sustainability of these shared resources. 

  To promote digital commons, different regions across the world have developed policies that prioritize these resources. This paper will analyze policies, mainly focusing on funding, from three distinct policies from Europe, Argentina, and the United States that target the fostering of digital commons, focusing on their categories, criterias for success, and regional dynamics. Categories will include what the policies are aiming to achieve such as infrastructure development, protection of digital freedom, and fostering cross-sectoral collaboration. Criteria of success will assess how effectively these policies meet their goals, as well as their ability to be sustainable in the long run.

  The Open Technology Fund (OTF) is a United States based nonprofit organization that is dedicated to advancing internet freedom in repressive environments by supporting the development and maintenance of technologies that counter censorship and surveillance. It is funded by the U.S. Agency for Global Media (USAGM). This falls under the “protection of digital freedom category”  as OTF’s mission ensures global access to freedom of expression, information, and privacy. The OTF uses several mechanisms to circumvent censorship and enhance digital security such as funding for the development of technologies that enable secure communication and bypass censorship including open source VPN tools and providing expert services through its labs which have services such as translation, security audits, usability assessments, and legal support. OTF’s mission to spread freedom of speech globally aligns with the role of the U.S. as a long-standing advocate for democratic values and individual rights. By supporting technologies that bypass censorship and enhance digital privacy, OTF extends these core American values and reinforces U.S. influence globally.

  The OTF has been highly effective in meeting its goals with over 2 billion users worldwide relying on OTF-supported technologies daily. They have also provided assistance to individuals and organizations facing digital emergencies in over 40 countries such as Venezuela, Iran, and Azerbaijan. In terms of sustainability, it relies almost entirely on the continuing support of the U.S. government with an annual budget of $40 million. It is difficult to assess what will happen with the incoming presidential cabinet and their focus on protectionist policies. However, considering the soft-power benefits the U.S. can attain from spreading their values, it would be beneficial for the U.S. government to continue funding OTF.

  The National Agency for Scientific and Technological Promotion granted 2,369,197 pesos in 2013, through the Argentinian Technological Fund (FONTAR) which aims to invest in the creation of a productive cluster specializing in free software solutions. This initiative aims to foster collaboration between private firms and institutions such as the Chamber of Free Software Companies and the National University of Entre Rios. The cluster will work on eleven projects, nine of them which will be developed by private firms. For example, they will develop a flight control system using open-source software which will reduce costs and improve system adaptability compared to proprietary solutions. This falls under infrastructure development and cross-sectoral collaboration, fostering technological sovereignty through building of digital infrastructure and societal innovation through collaboration. In terms of sustainability, this does not seem to be an ongoing grant, however, building the digital infrastructure laid the foundation for a long-term digital infrastructure that can continue to support open-source development. With a smaller economy, Argentina prioritizes infrastructure development and self-reliance to meet its technological needs, making initiatives like FONTAR essential for fostering local innovation and long-term sustainable growth.

  The Next Generation Internet (NGI) is an EU initiative launched in 2019 aimed at driving internet technology towards a human-centric internet that aligns with European values. The NGI has a €140 million budget over five years to fund various grassroot open source projects. They support more than 1000 projects that emphasize privacy, security, sustainability, and active participation in the digital space that align with EU values and existing regulations like the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Digital Services Act (DSA). This falls under infrastructure development as it funds grassroots projects allowing new innovative ideas to come into light. Because of the vast scope of the project, it can also fall under cross-sectoral collaborations through funding projects that actively collaborate with institutions and tech companies such as Solid, a decentralized data storage platform.

  This project seemed to have achieved several of its goals as shown in a benchmark study that found that 75% of NGI projects enhance safety, security, and individual empowerment, and 39% compiled with EU values and legislations. For the sustainability factor, the study does conclude that the initiative has created sustainability through establishment of sustainable structures which ultimately contributed to the growth of the Free and Open-Source Software community. However, like the OTF, temporary funding may hinder long-term financial viability once grants are exhausted. The regional dynamic of the NGI reflects the EU’s commitment to aligning digital innovation with its core values and existing legislative frameworks such a the GDPR and the DSA, ensuring that the projects uphold privacy, security, and user rights. highlighting the central nature of the EU as a governing body.

  The policies analyzed, which all focus on providing funding, highlight how different regional values and needs are reflected. OTF reflects the U.S. focus on global digital freedom, FONTAR addresses Argentina’s need for technological self-reliance, and the NGI aligns with EU’s existing legislations and commitments to data privacy and security. These policies all exist to support digital commons but tailors its strategy to meet its specific regional needs whether it is economic or political, and contribute to the overall support of digital commons worldwide.  


Works Cited

CSAIL MIT. Web Inventor Tim Berners-Lee’s Next Project: A Platform That Gives Users Control of Their Data. Accessed 9 Dec. 2024. https://www.csail.mit.edu/news/web-inventor-tim-berners-lees-next-project-platform-gives-users-control-their-data.
European Commission. EU Open Source Software Strategy 2020–2023: Think Open. Accessed 9 Dec. 2024. https://op.europa.eu/en/publication-detail/-/publication/257ae66f-23c7-11ef-a195-01aa75ed71a1/language-en.
iProfesional. El Ministerio de Ciencia crea cluster para empresas de software libre. Accessed 9 Dec. 2024. https://www.iprofesional.com/tecnologia/159530-el-ministerio-de-ciencia-crea-cluster-para-empresas-de-software-libre.amp.
Open Technology Fund. Values and Principles. Accessed 9 Dec. 2024. https://www.opentech.fund/about/values-principles/.
U.S. Agency for Global Media. Open Technology Fund. Accessed 9 Dec. 2024. https://www.usagm.gov/networks/otf/.
World Economic Forum. The Case for the Digital Commons. Accessed 9 Dec. 2024. https://www.weforum.org/stories/2021/06/the-case-for-the-digital-commons/.


